README.md, before:

# cv_camera
Camera program written using Python and OpenCV  
The purpose of this program is to be used with a Raspberry Pi in order to take photos during the NASA Student Launch competition.  

Do take a look at the [current issues](https://github.com/Nin3s/cv_camera/issues) to see what needs to be done (feel free to add more if needed as well)

## How to run it:
1. Install python on your system
2. Install opencv-python with the command `pip install opencv-python`
3. To run it, type in `python cam.py` into the terminal

## Button Inputs for Testing Purposes:
`space`: takes a photo  
`1`: toggle grayscale effect  
`2`: toggle 180 flip effect  
`3`: overlay a static image of the bad news gif
`q`: quits and closes the program  

## Color Channels
Images read in opencv using RGB or BGR are read using 3 color channels (red, green, blue). Our opencv program reads images using BGR, which just means the color blue is read in first.  

Converting the image into grayscale turns that 3 channel image into a 2 channel one. That's why if you want to overlay another image, you have to either convert that overlay into a 2 channel, or convert the captured grayscale frame into a 3 channel.  

You can see the different sizes of the images with the `print([image].shape)` that's inserted into the code.  

## Requirements for NSL:
1. Add timestamp to photo
2. Change image to and from grayscale
3. Special effects filter
4. Pan camera at different angles
5. Be able to receive commands from radio signals

Commit message:

working gif overlay in test.py

README.md, after:

# cv_camera
Camera program written using Python and OpenCV  
The purpose of this program is to be used with a Raspberry Pi in order to take photos during the NASA Student Launch competition.  

Do take a look at the [current issues](https://github.com/Nin3s/cv_camera/issues) to see what needs to be done (feel free to add more if needed as well)  

NOTE: When using the gif overlay, there is a lag in video output. I do not know if that will affect the camera output on the raspberry pi since we don't actually need video output, but it's something to keep in mind.

## How to run it:
1. Install python on your system
2. Install opencv-python with the command `pip install opencv-python`
3. To run it, type in `python cam.py` into the terminal

## Button Inputs for Testing Purposes:
`space`: takes a photo  
`1`: toggle grayscale effect  
`2`: toggle 180 flip effect  
`3`: overlay a static image of the bad news gif
`q`: quits and closes the program  

## Color Channels
Images read in opencv using RGB or BGR are read using 3 color channels (red, green, blue). Our opencv program reads images using BGR, which just means the color blue is read in first.  

Converting the image into grayscale turns that 3 channel image into a 2 channel one. That's why if you want to overlay another image, you have to either convert that overlay into a 2 channel, or convert the captured grayscale frame into a 3 channel.  

You can see the different sizes of the images with the `print([image].shape)` that's inserted into the code.  

## Requirements for NSL:
1. Add timestamp to photo
2. Change image to and from grayscale
3. Special effects filter
4. Pan camera at different angles
5. Be able to receive commands from radio signals
